So the key idea here is that we need to check two things to see if something is a basis.
We need to check if this set is linearly independent, and that it also--independent--and that it also spans R^3.
So there's two things to check here. The good news is it's fairly straightforward to check both these things at the same time.
So what we'll do is we'll write down a matrix corresponding to the system where these are on the left hand side.
So that would be the matrix's first column is 2 1 -1, the second column 3 1 4, and the third column is 7 0 3.
For thinking about whether this set is linearly independent or not,
we would augment with zeros and ask ourselves how many ways are there to build the zero vector? For asking if it spansR^3 or not,
We would augment with an arbitrary vector b and ask ourselves whether we can always find a solution no matter what b is.
The answers to both of those questions really only depend on what's going on on the left hand side.
So go ahead and write down the left hand side and compute the reduced row echelon form here.
So I typed this into Wolfram Alpha, and it has spit out the matrix one zero zero zero one zero zero zero one.
All right. So for the first question of linear independence, we want to know if we augment this with zeros,
How many solutions do we have augmented with zeros?
We noticed that the solution--the system will look like x1=0,
x2=0, and x3=0. So they only have the trivial solution, which tells us that we're linearly independent.
Now we want to know if this spans R^3 or not. So now we want to ask ourselves no matter  what I augment with over there.
Are we going to have a solution? And sure enough, no matter what I would augment with over here, it really doesn't matter what ends up over here--
Our system is still going to look the same. It's going to look like x1 equals whatever is up here.
x2 equals whatever is here. x3 equals whatever is here.
So we do always have a solution. No matter what happens over there.
So we do span R^3. So we're linearly independent and we span R^3.
Therefore, we are a basis of R^3.